First, we have to install SQLite. 

For Mac:
If you're using a Mac with OS X 10.5 Leopard or newer, do nothing. It's already installed. 
Open up your Terminal (<a href="http://www.osxterminal.com/launch_terminal/">here's how</a>), and type 'which sqlite3'. 
You should see the path to SQLite 3, which looks something like this: /usr/local/bin/sqlite3.
Now test the SQLite command prompt. Type 'sqlite3'. You should see something like this:

SQLite version 3.6.22
Enter ".help" for instructions
Enter SQL statements terminated with a ";"
sqlite> 

For PC:
First you will need to download two files from the SQLite web site:
1) Go to http://www.sqlite.org/download.html 
2) Under the ‘Precompiled Binaries For Windows’ section, download these two files:

sqlite-3_6_23.zip (214.32 KiB)
A command-line program for accessing and modifing SQLite databases. 
See the documentation for additional information.

sqlitedll-3_6_23.zip (213.17 KiB)
This is a DLL of the SQLite library without the TCL bindings. 
The only external dependency is MSVCRT.DLL.

Download the zip files to C:\Program Files (Technically, you just need to download these files to somewhere your system can find them; any folder defined in the system PATH will do).

3) Unzip the files. (If you do not have WinZip or another Zip archive extractor on your system, then you may need to download one, such as Aladdin Expander: http://download.cnet.com/Aladdin-Expander/3000-2250_4-2931968.html.)

4) Inside the unzipped sqlite-3_6_23, you should find sqlite3.exe. Click on that file, and you should see a black box pop up with something like
<pre>
SQLite version 3.6.22
Enter ".help" for instructions
Enter SQL statements terminated with a ";"
sqlite> 
</pre>

At this point you have done all the configuration and installation you need to do for SQLite. Taxing, I know.
You are looking at a command-line interface for SQLite. You can type all of your SQL commands here, and eventually you may want to. But we're going to use a different interface to get started. If you want to check out the command-line interface, type ".help" and see what's there. When you're ready, go ahead and exit from that prompt
by typing ".exit". Close the Terminal window for Mac or the command console for Windows.


